# Saturday, September 29, 2018

We're about a week out from the due date, Henry. We still don't know when you'll make your arrival, but we're looking forward to meeting you. 

Mimi and Papa are leaving Kentucky today and starting the drive up to New York. They'll be here tomorrow afternoon. They're staying at a rental (Airbnb) about ten minutes away from our apartment, and they'll be here to help take care of you, Leo, while Henry is born. 

We live in Inwood, which is a neighborhood in Manhattan. It's all the way at the top of the island. When Leo was born we lived in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. I commute up to Hastings-on-Hudson for work, and when we lived in Brooklyn it took me and hour and forty-five minutes each way. That was just too much. I didn't think I'd ever get to spend time with you Leo. So we moved closer to my job and closer to the Metro north. Now my commute is more like 45 minutes each way. 

We're thinking of moving again, up to Westchester. 

It would make my commute even shorter, but mostly it's about the schools. NYC schools are some of the best in the country, but also some terrible schools. It's very hit and miss, and both the good schools and the bad are overcrowded. So it's fight to get in to most any school. As a parent, you start exploring your options when your kids one or two years old. You figure out district you're in and then what zone. What schools are you zoned for? What schools in your district can you apply to? Which schools will you apply to the lottery process for? What order do you rank the schools you apply to? The chances of winning the lottery process on your first pick school is low, so you've got to apply to a lot and hope you get something towards the top of your list. What's the commute going to be like? You can't predict that until you figure out which school you get into. Should you consider gifted and talented programs if you think your kids are smarter than the average bear? If so, do you want to look at the district G&T or do you want to go city-wide? Either way the competition is fierce, and G&T basically just means "skipping" a grade and learning the 2nd grade curriculum in 1st grade. It's not necessarily a different curriculum, but your kids would be surrounded by other "smart" kids. I put that in quotes because G&T is determined by standardized testing and IQ testing which is notoriously inaccurate when administered to four-year-olds. Then do you want a traditional school (we don't) or a more progressive school (we do), and are there options in your zone or district. And so far I'm just talking about pre-school and kindergarten. Not all pre-schools are connected with kindergartens so you'd need to reapply for kindergarten. And then you take a huge test before middle school to determine where you go (and more rounds of city-wide applications), followed by a third round of applications for high school.

The whole thing a mess. We can navigate it. We have the will, the money, and the privilege to do it. But we don't want to navigate it. We want simplicity. 

So we found a town in Westchester where the schools are progressive in the way we like, and where the process is simple: if you live here you go to this school. There's one elementary, one middle school, and one high school. It's small town. Close to my work. Your mom and I have been researching what it might feel like to live there. 

We're torn because on the one hand Inwood is lovely. It's got great parks and playgrounds, and wonderful people. We've met so many good folks in the two years we've been here. We feel like we're developing a sense of community. I have a woodshop I go to once a week to build furniture and make things. Your mom has a yoga studio where she takes classes and teaches. We've made friends. We love the access to both nature and the city. It's a little best of both worlds situation. We get on the A train and we can be at Columbus Circle in 30 minutes. We get a zip car and get on the highway and we can be in Harriman State Park in 45 minutes. We've got a rent stabilized apartment (which means the rent only goes up 1% to 2% a year) so we can afford to keep living here year after year. It's a big enough place for us too.  We're near the farmer's market and the coffee shop. We're walking distance to a grocery store and two subways. I've found a gym with lots of squat racks, Olympic plates, and a sauna (my favorite three criteria for a good gym). 

On the other hand there's only one school nearby that we'd want to send you to, and it's overcrowded and not easy to get into. The other options are all long commutes. We hate commuting, but also, we can't really imagine making you commute for an hour each way when you're six. You've got better things to do with your time when you're a kid than sit on the subway trekking to school. So while we love being city people. While we love this neighborhood. While it's perfect for newborns, babies, and toddlers. It's not so great for elementary aged kids. 

I moved to New York in June of 2009. It was the summer Michael Jackson died. I lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. Kids would ride their bikes up and down the street with radios on the handlebars blasting Michael Jackson music. Adults would crank up their car stereos and blast MJ. All summer long. I didn't have air conditioning (just a fan in the window) so I heard a lot of Michael Jackson that summer. I didn't mind. He's great. 

Before New York, I lived in Boulder (CO), Chicago, St. Louis, and Louisville (KY). The first year in New York was brutal, but it became clear despite the rough time that this was my kind of town. I finally felt like I'd arrived somewhere that made sense. I like the pace of the city. The energy it had. The feeling of all those people walking around, but also the way you could disappear into the crowd. For a curious introvert it can be a glorious place. You're never the weirdest one on the street. Everyone is different. There's so much diversity that you can be whatever you want to be and no one will blink an eye. And if they do, on the off-chance they do, you can tell them to go fuck themselves because that's allowed in NY culture (not something that felt allowed in some of the smaller places I've lived). Mostly, you know you're not going to see these people again. You'll take the same commute to work or school everyday and 95% of the people you cross paths with will be new each day.

But in your neighborhood, you'll start to meet the regulars, you'll start to make friends. You'll get to know the people at the bars and restaurants. You'll make friends with someone who works in the shops or behind the deli counter at the grocery store. You'll find little islands of familiarity in this sea of people. And if you want to know your neighbors, you will, and if you want to tell your neighbors to leave you alone no one will mind. It's a great city in the way it lets you be you. 

And so after (nearly) a decade living here I start thinking about what's next for our family. What will you two need? What will our lives as parents be like in a small town outside the city? We'll still be close enough to take the train in to Grand Central. Will we find our people in Westchester? Will we really come back into the city? Will the quiet, simplicity suit us? Will you miss seeing all the ambulances, backhoes, excavators, fire engines, taxis and people? Leo, you're in a phase right now were you love construction vehicles. We learned the names of all the different variants recently so I could correctly ID them for you when we came across them. You were calling them all diggers because that's what a truck book called them, but there are three many variants: excavators, front loaders, and backhoes (excavators and loaders combined). I digress. We're thinking of moving. 

I sat down this morning to talk about how I wanted to teach you two to study so you wouldn't get overwhelmed with homework and you'd still have time to play, exercise, read for fun, hang out with friends, and get eight hours of sleep. I found myself needing to talk about the move and our lives in New York. I guess I wanted to describe what it's like here during this moment in time before Henry is born. 

I love you. 

More later. xoxo
