# Sunday, September 23, 2018

Henry, you're due in 15 days. Who knows when exactly you'll arrive, but we're ready for you. The past several weeks have been a little stressful as your mother and I hustled to get loose ends tucked away at work so that we could leave for a month (in my case) or six (in hers) to be at home taking care of you and Leo. And really, even if we'd never wrapped up any of the loose ends, we're ready for you--because we love you and want you in our family. 

Leo, you're growing up so fast. They say that when you have a second kid you and the first kid walks into the hospital room right after the birth you realize that the first kid is a _giant_. I think we're going to realize that about you in a few weeks. 

You're talking so clearly. The teachers at school keep telling us that you _very advanced_. It's true you're smart, but also you're so clear when you communicate. You love reading books and you're soaking up new words at a surprising rate. I've talked a little in my notes about how [active learning](../notes/active_learning.md) beats passive. And books seem to be such a perfect example of that. When we're reading you ask questions, and we talk about what we're seeing. If you're losing interest in the book we change the book to play a "can you find X on this page" game. Sometimes you "read" the book to me. We go back to pages that are more interesting and we skip pages that you're not interested in. You've memorized a few of the books and tell me the words, verbatim, for what happens on a page and in a few cases you tell me what happens on the next page before I turn it. You're not _reading_ yet, but you're well on your way and your love for books makes me so happy.

I had [this photo on my phone for months that was of you sitting on Mama's meditation cushion, in your hoodie reading a book](https://www.instagram.com/p/BkfJX1_lo6TKq2R7XwhkOq5tF7SJngseUX-b_c0/?taken-by=lovethepecks). It was early morning and mama was cooking breakfast. You weren't in the living room and it was really quiet. That wasn't usual. So she went to see what you were up to and saw you on the other side of our bedroom, just reading to yourself. 

Henry, pay attention because I think this is going to be a story we can tell about you too in two years. :)

Your mom and I were talking about how proud we are that you love books. We talk about school at ton these days. What's it for? Where will you go? What will you get out of it? How else might we approach it. Should we go all _[Captain Fantastic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Captain_Fantastic_(film))_ and home school you two? We're thinking about where we live and what kind of a school you'll go to... anyway, it's exhausting, exhaustive, and fun. It's also one of the biggest decisions _we'll make for you_, we can talk about the biggest decisions you'll make later.  And since your education forms your worldview and shapes which tools and habits you use to interact with the world, well, we really want to do this big decision justice. These letters are, in a way, me trying to educate you. 

Anyway, the point that I'm rambling towards is this: if all you did was sleep eight hours, exercise for an hour, and then read books for the remaining 13 hours we think you'd turn out well. 

Now, you'd probably want to take some of what you found in the books and put it into action, because that's the natural relationship between information and experience. When you learn something you want to try it, you want to use it, you want to apply it to something you care about. That's what education looks like _after_ school is over. That's what real-life education is all about. Usually it takes place along side and interwoven with family life and a career, but that's the fundamental loop. Learn, test, measure, repeat. It's the basis of the scientific method and how to build projects and businesses. 

The learning part can come from most anywhere: conversations with other people, first-hand experience, tv, movies, audio, reading articles. But your mother and I have found that books tend to be the goldmine of quality second-hand experience. The work that goes into writing a book means that (if it's a quality book) you get in a few hours of reading the distilled wisdom of a thoughtful person. Reading books is one of the most efficient ways to learn because the [signal-to-noise ratio](notes/signal_to_noise_ratio.md) is very very high in a good book. 

In other news, Leo, we've got a bed time ritual where the last thing before bed is for me to hold you in my arms and tell you about the things that happened that day. I talk about the details of your life and repeat them back to you. Sometimes I tell you big things like what's happening in the world or to the rest of your family, but mostly it's about your daily life. It's one of my favorite parts of the day.

Part of this ritual is for me to ask you what you want to tell me about the day. For the last two weeks ([since we went to the Rockaways](180908_Saturday_September_8.md)) you've been telling me every night that you went swimming. In the ocean. And in a swimming pool. And in the bath. 

Your love of swimming makes your mom's heart grow a thousand times larger. She love hearing it because she loves the water. She loves what swimming gives her life. She loves what she learned by challenging herself to be a competitive swimmer. She loves what she gets from the meditative action of swimming laps as she chews over a difficult problem or a juicy idea. She loves what open water swimming taught her about risk, fear, and audacious goals. She love hearing that you love swimming. I love it too, because one of the best joys of parenting is to discover what your children love. 

Too often parents try to instill a love of something _they_ love into their children (that's most of what this letter is about, me wanting to instill a love of reading in you and Henry). I'm guilty of wanting you to love what I love. It's a natural thing to want that, but the thing that's hard and which is more important is to discover what your children love and help them do what they love. So discovering that you love swimming is a joy, and then a two-fold joy for you mom since it's something she loves so much. 

_PS - I really like swimming, and swam competitively in elementary and jr. high. I'm no slouch, but your mom gets the status as the swimmer in the family. At least for now. We'll see what you two do..._

It's a little after 6:30am now. I suspect you'll be up soon. So I should wrap this letter up and get started on breakfast. We're spending this weekend doing a little more prep for when Henry arrives. Packing the hospital bag. Cooking more meals for the freezer. Gifts are arriving from friends and family. Mostly more books. I flooded the registry with 60+ books. More Seuss, Sendak, Willems, and Boynton. Geniuses all. We're installing new bookshelves in your room to help hold all the books. And a bench and a footstool so we've got a dedicated reading area in the corner by the window. We read at night, but I'm really angling for more reading during the day too. You see my agenda at work. At least I'm transparent about it. 

We don't let you watch tv or movies yet. We limit your screen time. We don't let you play video games. I'm sure I'll talk more about this later, but it's mostly because while FUN those things are super addictive, and the best way to avoid an addiction is to reduce your exposure to the thing that causes the addiction. I'm really excited to teach you both about technology. I've already picked out [the first computer I want to "build" with you](https://kano.me). It requires assembly and is basically just a raspberry pi with some nice components. It will let you play games and use [Scratch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scratch_(programming_language)) to learn the fundamentals of programing and computational thinking. I really want to give you space to make technology and take it apart. To play with it not just as a consumer but as a creator. I've got a whole rant about keyboards vs touch screens that I'm rehearsing for when you're a little older. But, for now, we're reducing your exposure to screens. There's so much more to enjoy right now: climbing, running, scooting, jumping, crawling, hopping, reading books, telling stories, playing imaginary games, and laughing with friends. My fear is that screens would becomes too powerful a draw and you'd miss out on some of these other things. All in due time. All in due time. 

I love you. I love you so much.

