# Saturday, October 27, 2018

My paternity leave is nearing an end. It's been glorious to be home for these early days of your life, Henry. You're a professional sleeper right now, clocking something like 18 hours a day. You're also super efficient at using Mama's milk to grow. You poop, sure, but mostly you use every ounce of milk and convert it into bodyweight. A week after your birth you'd put on a pound of growth! For context, most babies lose weight after they're born because learning to nurse/drink formula isn't as efficient as getting food pumped into you via an umbilical cord.  So pediatricians just want babies to regain the weight they've lost since birth. Doctors like to see the babies regain the weight in two weeks—longer than that and the docs start to worry about the health of the kiddo. So again, you didn't just regain your birth weight you exceeded it by a full pound. Damn son. 

There's a story of this great Greek wrestler named [Milo of Croton](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milo_of_Croton) who would train each year by lifting a baby calf onto his shoulders and carry it around. As the calf ate and grew, it became harder for Milo to lift and carry the cow. But as Milo lifted and carried the growing cow, Milo became progressively stronger. This is the fundamental idea behind [progressive overload](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Progressive_overload) for strength and conditioning. Each workout you put your body under small amounts of progressively increasing stress (increased weight, increased reps, increased time under tension, increased duration, etc.) and your body responds by getting stronger. It's adaptation at it's finest. 

I used to joke when Leo was born that the only reason I went to the gym was to try and keep myself strong enough to keep lifting my quickly growing son. You, Henry, and one-upping Leo in this department. Thank goodness I've got a four years of lifting under my belt by now. 

Henry, you're three weeks old, and your neck strength is really starting to stand out to us. You're lifting your head and moving it so expertly that we fear you're going to start rolling over soon. For what it's worth, one of the joys of the newborn period is that when you put them down they stay where you put them. This makes it a bit saner to try and parent them. You can put a newborn down on a play mat and take a shower. That changes once they start rolling. Now you need to think about where you're putting them and what all might be in reaching distance if they started rolling. It also means you can't swaddle them up at night (and swaddling _really_ helps a baby sleep) because if they rolled onto their stomaches while swaddled they wouldn't have access to their arms to push up and that's a suffocation hazard. So, yes, I want you to develop into a strong, mobile young man... but give us a couple weeks of sanity first please? Maybe wait until you're sleeping through the night before you start rolling or crawling, alright? :) 

Leo, I'll keep saying it: you're a wonderful older brother and you're dealing with the stress of all the change beautifully. Your teacher at school (it's daycare but we call it school), Ms. B., says that you potty trained so quickly that you should be a spokesmodel for the school. She also said that she's so proud of you because when there's a conflict with another kid at school you use your words to say what you want and what's wrong. Your Mama and I are so proud how clear you are: about what you want, about what's not right, and in how you articulate what it is you need. 

On the train yesterday someone called you a genius for the first time. You've had a lot of people say you were a smart child, but this was the first time someone dropped the "g" word. You are. We're not going to talk about it very frequently as you're growing up because it's not good for you to get a fixed mindset about whether you're smart or not. It's better for you to have a fixed mindset saying "I work hard at understanding the world around me, and I've got grit to help me persevere when things get difficult." 

This comes out of [Carol Dweck's research on fixed and growth mindsets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mindset#Fixed_and_growth). Here's a good primer article on [why we're parenting to help you two develop growth mindsets, instead of reinforcing the story that you and your brother are geniuses](https://www.khanacademy.org/talks-and-interviews/conversations-with-sal/a/the-learning-myth-why-ill-never-tell-my-son-hes-smart) (even though you are). 

Anyway, after the woman on the train called you a genius for saying thank you to someone for picking up a toy you'd dropped and then being generally verbal and articulate. You said "No, I not genius." I didn't correct you. _You're already so smart you're doing the growth mindset work yourself._ Or you're a two year old who says no to most new things... 

Leo, you're starting to become a picky eater. In the early days of trying solid foods you'd eat anything we put in front of you. These days you have some real favorite foods and those are the things you request and get frustrated if you don't get. We give them to you pretty frequently. They are: peanut butter, bananas, greek yogurt, pears, apples, larabars, and bread with "butter-butter" (so as to be clear that it's not peanut butter). They're not _unhealthy_ foods so I don't worry about giving them to you, but you've started rejecting anything else. The rejecting anything else is the part that's troubling me. 

I really want you to learn to eat everything. A refined and broad palette is learned behavior. Kids in India learn to like curry, kids in Japan learn to love sushi, and kids in America learn to eat fried chicken nuggets. It's all cultural. Parents in different places put different kinds of foods in front of their kids. The kids always adapt and learn to eat and enjoy it. It's my job to put a wide variety of foods in front of you so that you develop a habit of eating everything. Just wait, you'll see I'm right about sweet potatoes, guacamole, and chili. 

So, the plan is this: we all eat the same foods. No kids menu. We cook one dinner and that's what's on offer. You and Henry don't need to eat it, you're welcome to say no, but we're not going to make replacement meals. One of the things I like about this approach is that it forces your mother and I to eat well too. We can't serve ourselves pizza every night and then complain that you won't eat your brussels sprouts. 

Sidebar: Brussels sprouts have become a lot tastier since I was a kid. Two reasons: first, [farmers and scientists started breeding less bitter tasting brussels sprouts](https://www.soci.org/Chemistry-and-Industry/CnI-Data/2010/24/Brussels-a-bittersweet-story) in the 1990's (when I was 9-18 years old). Second, the fashionable method of cooking them changed from boiling them to pan-searing them in a cast iron skillet. The char from the searing them in the skillet brings out such a delightful flavor. We can thank the farm-to-table movement for popularizing this method (especially the restaurants I ate at in Brooklyn when I was in my late 20's). 

What else is going on with our family? 

I've started getting up at 4 am to start my days. Your mother joined me at this ungodly hour today too. I was always a night person from my teenaged years on, but having a baby changed that. I learned pretty quickly that I was a better dad, happier, and more able to handle the day if I had a chance to get up, hydrate, and have a cup of coffee before you woke up. That got me up at 5:30. Then once I started enjoying being up, I dialed it back to 5am so I had some time to journal and write before you woke up. I really started having fun writing (these letters, for example) and wanted more time to write. 

Sidebar: it's currently 5:53 AM

I also decided that after years of being afraid to publish my writing I'd let myself blog, AND I'd start working on some sci-fi short stories. So I jumped my wake up time back another hour to 4am when Henry was two weeks old. Some might say it's crazy to wake up that early when you've got a toddler and a newborn, but a) I'm crazy b) you need to do the things other people won't do to have an exceptional life (see: dictionary definition of exceptional) and c) I was already not sleeping through the night d) I had the opportunity to nap while I'm home for paternity leave and e) my colleagues are expecting me to be sleep deprived for the next few months. So it's really the _best_ time to exchange an hour of sleep for something I love. 

I love you both. I'm so glad I'm writing these letters to you. I hope that I keep the habit and that it's meaningful to you to have a chronicle of our lives over the years. 