# Saturday, October 20, 2018

It's been nearly two weeks since you were born Henry. You're sleeping and eating like a champ. That's right on course. You gained back your birth weight (which is the main thing a pediatrician wants to see from a healthy baby). Actually, you put on an extra pound of weight in a week, so you're more than healthy—you're growing exceptionally right now. You eat, you sleep, you cuddle. It's a good life. 

Leo, you've been handling the change so well. You make me proud everyday. 

I know it's been testing you to have your parents focused on a new kid. You don't get as much attention, even though we try to give you as much as we can. You've hit a few people and tried to bite a teacher at school. You've melted down a few times and thrown tantrums when you're tired or hungry. All of this is exactly as it should be for a little guy. We ask so much of you, and we love you whether you're able to handle it all or not. 

For the most part, though, you're handling it so well. You're sweet with Henry, and gentle with him. When he needs a diaper change you run into the bedroom and get an extra diaper (or ten) for him. When he cries you tell us that "Henry is telling us something." One day, when I was in the kitchen and it was just you and Henry in the living room, Henry cried and you said to him "Don't worry, Henry, I'm here." It melted my heart. When I remind you that Henry is too little to play, and that when he's bigger he can go to school with you and play with you—you tell me Henry is bigger now because you're so eager to spend time with your brother. 

You're a great big brother, and Henry is lucky to have you. 

My hope is that the two of you are close for the rest of your lives. That you teach each other. Protect each other. Support the other (even when and where you're different). I'm going to do everything I can to help foster that bond between you, even when it means getting out of your way.

Right now, Leo, you love me so hard. It's the best thing in the world. You want my attention and my company constantly. You look up to me and ask me to help you navigate the world. For the first year and a half of your life, you loved me but preferred your mom's company. After you stopped nursing, I got my time in the sun as your favorite. It's been blissful (and trying) to be your favorite for this past year. I'm so grateful to get this much love from you. I know there will be periods, especially as you get older when you don't want anything to do with me—or when you want me to keep my distance because you need to do it yourself. I'm ready for that, but only because I know how important it will be for you. Right now, though, I'm so glad you want to hang out all of the time. 

We asked for two things from our friends and family when Henry was born. The first was food delivery (home-cooked or otherwise) and it's such a gift having people show up at our door with food to help feed the family in these early weeks. The second thing was more books. We've got a little stockpile of new books in my closet hidden away so that I can keep gifting you with new books every week. A few weeks back we installed two new bookshelves in your bedroom. These concrete walls in the apartment are a beast to work with, but once I got them anchored in safely we tripled the amount of space we can dedicate to fostering your love of reading. We setup the red chair in the corner and bought a yellow footstool. I love the end of the day because I get to sit in the red chair with Leo on my lap, reading books. 

Earlier this week, I was describing a perfect day: Mama would be writing. I'd be reading a book, and Leo and Henry would be playing. All of us in the same room doing the things we loved. Well, we were close to that perfect day. Mama was in a chair writing. I was holding Henry, and Leo was sitting next to me eating a picnic dinner on the couch. Leo, you said "Read a book Dada" and so I did, and [there we were for the first time a family together in one room doing the things we love](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpIWU74FvrI54DgudtRd_g_5p-DdOH8ScKda740/?taken-by=lovethepecks). 

Leo, I hear you waking up. It's about 6:45am. Time for us to start our Saturday together. It's gotten cold, but with the right jacket I think we can still hit the park this morning. Until the sun comes up it will be you, me, toys, books, and some scrambled eggs. Maybe we'll sit on the bench by the window and look at the other apartments talking about which ones have lights on, which ones have pigeons on the window sills, and whether or not the cat in the next building over will look out the window. It's a sweet little morning routine. I also suspect hugs and giggles are in order this morning. 

I love you both. Forever and always. 