# Saturday, November 17, 2018

We're getting on a plane this morning and flying to Colorado. It will be Henry's first flight and Leo's 8th? (hard to say, I'm losing count). It will be our first flight with both of you.

I'm charging the old iPad, but it looks like it might be kaput. I was hoping to be able to lean on that during the flight. I should put some drawing apps on my phone. Maybe a little TV. It would be better if it was the iPad than my phone because it's a bigger screen and could be just for Leo. Also it being an "other" screen would help. Only for use on airplanes, etc.

No doubt you'll get tired of hearing me talk about how often we limited your screen time as a child. You'll say, "Yes, yes, it's important but can't you just let me _enjoy_ a little TV, Dad? Just have a normal childhood? No, please don't send me another article about the de-empathizing effects of screens on communication. Please not another tell-all book from Silicon Valley about how the people who make the tech addictive don't let their own children use it. My god, if you mention Maria Montessori's name again..."

My brain is so tired these days. Henry wakes up 2-3 times a night. We're trying to go to bed as early as possible, but it's landing between 8:30 - 9:30pm. I'm up at 4am to write. Leo, you and I get home from daycare at 6 - 6:30pm. It's dinner, bath, books, and hopefully you're in bed by 7:30 - 8pm. Which leaves doing the dishes and cleaning the house from 8 on. Your mom and I talk during or after we clean. There's not a whole lot left at that point. Not much energy, I mean. Or emotional bandwidth. Or willpower. It's a good time to accidentally end up in a fight. So we try to handle the hard stuff via voice message or text or email during the day. These days will get easier in a few years. Right now it's a grind. Sorry, I don't mean to complain. I'm just trying to paint you pictures of life growing up each week, and these weeks I'm struggling to talk about things besides the logistics. Because the logistics of time are what are eating our days. When do we sleep how much. I got six hours last night. I'd like eight. Coffee. Gym. Writing. Therapy. Naps. This is my self-care.

So, Thanksgiving. I think I managed to say some nice things about it [last week](letters/181110_Saturday_November_10.md). That was the gratitude part. Let's talk about the food. 

**Turkey**. This is the big one. The keystone of the meal. If you're vegan or vegetarian, you can skip it. But if you're an omnivore, read on. People make a big deal about how they cook it. And traditionally, there's a lot of status assigned to the person who carves it. So, what's the best way to cook a turkey? [Spatchcock](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Butterflying) it. This is a process where you cut the backbone out with heavy kitchen shears, then open the bird up so it will lie down flat. This provides two benefits. First, it cooks more evenly, which helps to fully cook the dark leg and thigh meat without drying out the white breast meat. Second, the low profile doesn't take up as much space in the oven (or on the grill).

**Here's how I do it:** Brine it overnight. Spatchcock it. Stuff butter under the skin. Salt and pepper the skin and underside. Put the bird on the rack of a [roasting pan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roasting_pan) and fill the pan with coarsely chopped veggies (pick your favorites, I like potato, sweet potato, sweet onion, shallots, garlic, carrots, turnips, etc...). Add quartered citrus fruit (orange, lemon, lime, grapefruit, etc...) to the roasting pan, rind-side down. Add a stick of butter cut in 1-2 tablespoon chunks to the roasting pan. Salt and pepper the veggies. Throw in some dried herbs too if you like (full cuts not sprinklings from a jar). The drippings from the bird fall down onto the veggies to season them. The moisture from the veggies and the citrus fruit rise up to keep the bird moist. Put it all in the oven at 450 degrees four about 45 minutes (your temp and cooking time will vary depending on the size of our bird). Pull it out when the bird looks nicely browned. Use a meat thermometer to check it's internal temp, you want it to get up to 165 degrees. No need to get too fussy about this part, you'll learn with practice how to get it all within tolerance. When it's ready, pull the whole thing out of the over and turn on the broiler. Take the bird and the rack out and put it on a cutting board to cool, cover it with a big bowl or with aluminum foil. Give it 10 minutes to rest. Take the veggies in the roasting pan and pick out the herbs and the citrus fruit. Stir the remaining veggies around with a spatula, flipping them over as much as possible. Now put veggies in the broiler to crispen up. A few minutes. Maybe more. You'll have to eyeball this part. 

And now, you've got a well cooked bird, and some mixed roasted veggie to go with it. Works wonderfully as a solid winter meal with a small chicken too. 

... okay, time's up on today's letter. I'll have to get into mashed potatoes, stuffing, cranberry sauce, green beans, sweet potato, pumpkin pie, derby pie, and the rest next week or next year. 

As always, I love you. 