# Saturday, November 10, 2018

Good morning boys, 

Henry, you're a little over a month old now, and growing like a champ. You gained two and half pounds and two inches in the first month. It's out of this world. You you are off the growth chart. The pediatrician can't tell us your percentile because you're too far above the 98% line. It might be safe to say that you're the tallest one month old alive. Leo, you were the tallest two month old alive. 

The two of you together! Yeesh. You'll eat us out of house and home. Vikings, both of you. Your mom is 5'10". I'm 6'2". Uncle Robert, is 6'5" and Grandpa Scott is 6'4". So you're coming by it honestly, but I've got a feeling you'll both be much taller than us, maybe than them too. Time will tell, and by then there will be many things about you more interesting and noteworthy than your height. 

Henry, you're still a champ sleeper. We're looking forward to mid-January when we sleep train you, but, honestly, the nights haven't been that bad. You'll go for 3-4 hours at a time without waking up. Last night was hard because I was exhausted and ready for bed at 7:30, but you fussed and fed until 10. Your mama passed out at 8:30 or so for some well-deserved sleep. Anyway, we're a little tired, but nothing coffee and naps can't fix. 

Your grandma Debbie cancelled her trip to visit, so right now Henry, you've only met Mimi. Papa was sick when he was here and didn't come up to say hi because he didn't want to get you sick. I think he should have anyway, just to see you from across the room. I was disappointed about that. Sometimes family is disappointing. I suspect we'll let you two down... I say "suspect" to protect my own ego. I know we'll let you down, it's inevitable, it's just part of being human. None of us are perfect. We'll lift you up and support you most of the time, so I hope the down bits are few and far between. 

That said, you'll get to meet most of your family very soon. We're headed to Colorado in a week (next Saturday) for Thanksgiving. We'll see Grandpa Scott and Grandma Carol, Uncle Robert, Aunt Susan, Cousin Kieran, Aunt Ellen. We'll probably also see Spencer and Lauren, your step-uncle and aunt, and maybe Parker, your other step-uncle. We might also get to meet the guy Ellen is living with, Matt. Families grow and shrink, the growing is much more fun. Right now we're in a period of growth. In the past three years we've added Leo, Kieran, and Henry to the family. In the past six we've added me to Sarah's family and vice versa. 

So, what do you need to know about Thanksgiving. Well, by the time you read this you'll be very familiar with it, but here goes: it's the best holiday. It's really only celebrated in America (and in Canada but at the wrong time). It's not religious, but it does have a shitty backstory involving the genocide and oppression of the Native Americans by the colonizing Europeans. It's hard to look at most anything in the past and not find something horrendous about it, so if you do find things from the past that seem pure look closer, if they're really spotless then cherish them and hold them tight. So, problematic past aside, modern Thanksgiving is a celebration of love and togetherness. It's a holiday about family, and often it's a holiday about the family that you choose. In my college years it was the holiday that we didn't go home for, it was the holiday that we used to make where we were our new home. It was a time of gathering friends and knitting closer into a community. It's a giant potluck of delicious food, a time to eat, drink, and be merry. The only goal is to be thankful, to take a good long look at your life and find the things that you're grateful for. 

Me? I'm grateful for your mom and the relationship we have, the way that we care for each other through the tough times, the way we laugh during the good times, and mostly for the way that we encourage the other person to change and grow. When I grew up there were these things called yearbooks. You'd get them from your school and it would have a photo of everyone in the school along with photos and essays about what had happened that year. The tradition was to sign other people's yearbooks so that they were personalized with notes from your friends and crushes. Growing up in Kentucky and Indiana, the small-town mindset was "don't change." The best advice and the cliche desire that most people would share was: "Never change" or "Stay just the way you are." They meant it as a compliment. They meant: "You're great. I like you just the way you are now." But change is inevitable, it's the only constant. And people would get upset when other people changed. It was a prime reason for breakups: "They changed" someone would say shaking their head. Like change was the enemy, and for some people in this world it still is. So I'm grateful for how your mom and I allow each other to change. And not just in ways I want her to change (doing more dishes, being less grumpy late at night, etc.), but in ways that _she wants_ to change. She does the same for me, encouraging me to become more of the person that I want to be, even if it's unfamiliar to her or not what she would have designed for my life. And, it's not even about _allowing_ the other to change, we're _encouraging_ change. Egging each other on to live the lives we dream of. That. I'm grateful for that. Sadly, it's rarer than it should be. 

And you. I'm so grateful for you. I love you so much my son. Both you and your brother. I'm so excited to watch you grow up and learn who you'll become so that I can encourage you to change and grow into the person you want to be, reminding you to go after the life that you want to live. Teaching you skills, strategies, and tactics for getting from where you are now to where you want to be. That's the point of an education: to pull forth from within yourself your own vision of the world as it should be and to have the abilities to make reality more like that vision.

And now, like after enlightenment, it's time to chop wood and carry water—time for diaper changes, breakfast, and a long day of balancing "Careful!" with "Try and see!" 

Love,
Dad

