# Sunday, December 9, 2018

Leo, you moved up to [the preschool room](https://www.instagram.com/p/BrFsy0TgOZSwgOtvmjP2qtx_79ecbNQycltfY40/) at daycare this week. Ms. B and Ms. LaTesha were sad to see you leave the 2's room, but you seem to really enjoy it up there. Your friends are Leela, Elaine, Sophia. Your friend Sherri Lynn is still down in the 2's room. And Eloise really missed you when you moved up, so much so that on Friday she _tried_ to kiss you when they consolidated classes at the end of the day for pickup.  We talked about it a little on the way home. About how it's okay to kiss people if you want to, but they need to want it too. And how it's okay to say no if you don't want someone to kiss you. Consequently (?), you've been saying no to me and Mama a lot this weekend. You'll tell us you just want a hug, no kiss. It's heartbreaking, but we respect it. 

Henry, you're just "waking up" more and more. So many [smiles](https://www.instagram.com/p/BrFyxuIgmNgjAhVOrr7xuhGYf56NsT_khYUo7g0/) from you and so much [coo-ing](https://www.instagram.com/p/BrFzGV3gsgZSua2ZhAedG8dSc3W8f_-Vk2a2ek0/). You really lock on with the eye contact and chirp and coo like you're part of the conversation. You're also chill AF right now. The rest of us will be cleaning, talking, wandering around, chattering, singing, screaming, etc. and you're just chilling. Not crying. Just watching and soaking it all in. Mama and I joke that you're already like "what have I gotten myself into with this family." We'll see if that trend continues once you understand us better and can talk back. Because obviously an infant is gonna be more chill than a 2.5 year old. 

This is [how the weekends feel](https://www.instagram.com/p/Bq2raqWAlGLc-Qbo9cbj24E_-mCrs-Y9LAYGVY0/) for me. 

Leo, you helped [decorate the Christmas tree](https://www.instagram.com/p/BrDPygCACCsuOBKZhYJHYSx8N2STvN7prNRUYk0/). 

Your mother and I toured a nursery school this week. A place for you two to do UPK in the city. We love the place you are now, but since Leo is in the oldest room they offer (at 2.5) it really feels like we need somewhere else that will grow with us. Also, it's expensive and this new place offers the free UPK that's part of living in New York City. The question will be what to do with Henry from 1-2 before he can start at the nursery school. So we've been spending a fair amount of time researching other daycare options. It's sad to think of leaving where we are now (in seven months) but it's the right call and it doesn't make any sense to keep going to both places because the commute would be a beast. It's already 30-40 minutes each way to the current place, doing that plus a second drop-off would be untenable. 

We're headed to Kentucky for Xmas in ten days. We'll be there for nine days (a week + travel time). Mimi, Papa, and Tia are all super excited to see you. Leo you're old enough this year to eat most of what Mimi cooks and I suspect it's going to be a big cookie Christmas for you. There are springerles [(Mimi's recipe)](img/springerles.png), a German-style licorice hard cookie which I adore. There are bourbon balls, which you're still too young for and are delicious. There are Russian tea cakes [(Mimi's recipe)](img/russian_tea_cakes.png), a small butter and nut cookie covered in powdered sugar. Other food traditions? Yes, yes indeed. The Younger family (because that's the name I was born with—Alex Miles Younger—have we talked yet about how I took your mother's last name?) knows how to layer a holiday with food traditions. One of our favorites is to make lemon curd [(Mimi's recipe)](img/lemon_curd.jpg) and eat it on croissants. 

Leo, you're learning who Santa Claus is this year. Not the full mythology yet, but mostly what he looks like. You were scared by the animated Santa light at grandma and grandpa's house at Thanksgiving. A week later we were making a diversion on the way home from the grocery store to look at a large inflatable Santa outside a furniture store in our neighborhood. We started reading holiday books, the same ones that Mimi and Papa read to me when I was a kid: _Holly and Ivy_, E.A. Hoffman's _The Nutcracker_, and _The Polar Express_. It's fun to steep you in a little Xmas tradition. You don't really get the whole gifts thing yet, that's fine. It's probably the least important part of the holidays even if it gets most of the attention. 

Until next week. xoxo

Dada

